Good morning everybody.
So glad you're here today and so glad that you are with us online.
Thank you for being a part of this service.
I wanna give a shout out to the Richmond Rosenberg campus.
I was with you last week.
I love it.
I love being there and worshiping with you.
The worship center is amazing, being with you is amazing.
And I'm gonna be back with you tonight.
Tonight is vision night at Richmond Rosenberg and there's a bunch of people coming.
I am so excited about the number of people that have signed up
for the vision night tonight.
And if you haven't at Richard Rosenberg, please do it today, now, so that we can make provisions for you.
We're so excited.
I am so excited about being there tonight.
And, yeah, God, for the Missouri City Campus, I'm gonna be with you next Sunday.
Next Sunday is the vision night, and it's actually two services.
We've got a four o'clock and a six o'clock, and I've heard a ton of people are coming at the Missouri City Campus.
And if you haven't signed up, I wish you would, because it is going to be incredible when you see what God is planning for the Missouri City Campus.
So be a part of that.
I really appreciate if you'd signed up today and at the Sugar Land Campus as well.
And the anthropologist was doing some research and study in the Fiji Islands, and in one particular island that he was working on, there was a tribal leader that he met.
Now this tribal leader speaks perfect English.
And they were having a conversation, and in the conversation, the tribal leader explained to the anthropologist, I've accepted Christ as my savior, and our whole tribe have given their heart to Christ.
And the anthropologist was an atheist, and he said, I'm really sad to hear that.
You know what I'm saying?
Nobody believes in the Bible anymore.
Now, that isn't true, but that was the first time that that tribal leader had ever heard that.
He was trying not to be offended.
He waited a second or two, and then he responded.
He said to the fellow others there, he said, do you see that huge rock in the distance?
You see that big rock?
He said, yeah, he said, that's where we smashed the heads.
of people that visited our island.
And you see the furnace that is right over here?
He said, yes, he said, that's where we roasted their bodies and ate them.
And you ought to be glad that I've accepted Christ and I believe the Bible are you would be dinner tonight.
The Bible changes people's lives.
It transforms our life.
It makes us a brand new person.
We're in a series entitled, The Church We Choose to Be.
It wasn't our original title, our teaching team, it was the original title is The Church God wants us to be.
But as we were studying Revelation chapter two and three, we realized all seven churches that is referenced in that passage all knew what God wanted them to be.
But five of the seven churches decided
We choose to be part of what God so wants us to be, but not all of what God wants us to be.
And Jesus comes to them and confronts them about their decisions, their choice, and says to them, you'd better re-choose because choices have consequences.
And if you choose to be other than what I want you to be,
I will remove your candlestick from its place.
The candlestick is the church.
I will move away from you because you have moved away from me."
The same thing Jesus does with every church, every single church, the Bible shows us who we are to be.
Then we have to make a choice of what we will do in relationship to what God has said to us.
Sugar Creek has existed for 49 years and had the favor of God all these years and God has done such an amazing work in this church.
But I'll tell you the very day we walk away from God, He walks away from us.
He will remove our candle stick from its place.
And that's what I want to talk to you about today.
One of the things that we've discovered in the first church that we looked at is this truth, that God in Christ is to be our top priority to worship, to love, to follow, to know Him.
Last week in the church that we looked at, there was a key idea that was simply this.
If we stand for Christ, even if it means, or we choose to stand for Christ, even if it means that we will suffer
for His names sake, because that day is coming.
It's already here, but it just hasn't ramped up yet, in which we will suffer for following Jesus Christ.
This morning in the church, we're going to be looking at, it's this idea.
Jesus is challenging them and us to have an unwavering commitment to the Word of God.
And that is what I want us to talk about.
It's not easy in this culture to have an unwavering commitment to the Word of God.
It's not easy to do that.
Because the culture is actually against what the Bible teaches, especially about morality and especially about sexual morality and puts pressure on the church to conform to its standards and leave what the Bible says.
It's not easy today to have an unwavering commitment to the Word of God.
I think more and more every year that goes by, that this culture begins more and more to resemble the first century Roman Empire as far as morality is concerned.
And so with that in mind, I want us to take a look at what
this church is about and how Jesus approaches it.
Now what I'm going to do today is actually take what is the list in the list, the fourth church and pastor Xavier will be with us next week and he will take the third, but there is a rationale that we have.
So look at Revelation chapter 2 and verse
18 and notice what it says.
To the angel of the church and the entire right, these are the words of the Son of God whose eyes are like a blazing fire and whose feet are like burnished bronze.
I know your deeds, your love, your faith, your service, your perseverance, and that you are now doing more than you did at first.
Nevertheless,
When Revelation chapter two was written, the church of Thyatira would have been a tiny church in a tiny town.
And I would imagine they would have been very surprised that they would have made Jesus' list of seven churches.
Jesus had a lot of good things to say about them.
Their love, their faith in God, their perseverance, their consistency.
There's everything good about those and nothing bad.
But then comes the awful word, nevertheless.
And that's when the train leaves the track.
There is a passage of Scripture now I wanna read in which Jesus confronts them and it is a very involved passage of Scripture and you're gonna really need to follow it.
So I'm gonna ask you really pay close attention as we work our way through these eight verses and listen to what Jesus says in Revelation chapter two and beginning in verse 20.
You tolerate that woman Jezebel
who calls herself a prophetess.
By her teaching, she misleads my servants into sexual immorality and the eating of food sacrificed to idols.
I have given her time to repent of her immorality, but she's unwilling.
So I will cast her on a bed of suffering.
And I will make those who commit adultery with her to suffer intensely until they repent of her ways.
I will strike her children dead."
Now, stop for a moment.
He's not talking about children, children.
He's talking about followers, adults.
He's talking about those who have chosen to follow this woman's teaching, and he says, I will strike her followers dead.
and then all the churches will know that I am He who searches hearts and minds, and I will repay each of you according to your deeds.
Now stop for a moment, who is this that's talking?
It's Jesus.
In the first century, in the time of the gospels, Jesus came as the suffering servant.
But now Jesus is the glorified Lord in heaven.
We saw in chapter one of Revelation,
that he is, looks totally different in majesty and honor.
He is the glorified Jesus Christ in heaven.
And Jesus is simply saying to them, one day, you will face me.
There will be a judgment time and one day you will come face to face with me.
And then he says in verse 24,
And now I say to the rest of you in Thyatira, he was talking to the bad guys, and now he's talking to the good guys.
And now I say to the rest of you in Thyatira, to you who do not hold to her teaching and have not learned Satan's so-called deep secrets.
I will not impose any other burden on you.
Only hold on to what you have until I come.
Wow.
What is the world that's going on in this passage?
You gotta admit, this is an odd passage if you're just reading through the Bible.
What is happening in this passage?
It is obvious that there was a leader in this church who called herself a prophetess and it was leading people in false understanding of scripture.
Apparently she was a very good speaker, very capable speaker.
And she had shared with the church, she had deep secrets from God that God had given her a special word.
Now that's how she put it, God's given me a special word, but Jesus says, no, this came from Satan, not God.
And what is it that she's saying?
These aren't my words.
What I've done is I've gone to several commentaries and I've tried to hear from people that know the original language.
What is it that is being communicated in the passage?
And this is it.
She was teaching it is appropriate for us to go along with the immoral sexual culture of our city.
Because God is a God of forgiveness and grace, God will understand and overlook our behavior.
Sometimes it is better to abandon the Bible's teaching on sexual morality in order to better get along with the culture.
Some things don't change.
It's exactly where we are today.
The end result is that this church was falling into compromise
and immorality.
Her teaching of moral compromise was destroying this church.
A few weeks ago, a member of our church that I greatly respect and texted me and asked me, have you heard of the book, Shepherds for Sale?
And would you get a copy of it?
Would you read the book?
Well, I've got a long list of books that have been recommended to me that I haven't quite gotten to yet.
But he was just really insistent and I really respect him and I got the book.
In fact, Kathy and I both read the book together.
It's written by a woman named Megan
and she is a well-known Christian writer.
And in the book, the whole point of the book is to take every moral issue that is, that we're going through as a country right now, every moral issue and cultural issue, and to see the money trail, the millions of dollars that are being invested to change evangelical thought
about each one of these moral issues.
When Kathy and I went through it, we weren't totally surprised of everything because we sort of tried to keep up, but there were several things, especially about the money trail.
I was stunned by it.
I had no idea of.
And many of the issues, I pretty well knew what was happening, but I didn't understand exactly why, and she filled in the gas for me.
But it was chapter eight.
that I wasn't ready for.
It was chapter eight that made me sick at my stomach.
The eighth chapter is about churches and Christian ministries who have walked away from the Bible in relationship to the LGBTQ culture.
Her book, and by the way, it's the most documented book I've ever read, is like a doctoral thesis in which she documents literally everything.
I mean, there's footnotes like you can't believe, but she is trying to give evidence that these things that were said were said, and she gives the reference of where you can hunt it down and you can see it for yourself.
Just so that you'll follow the trailer where she's leading and understand that she's not making it up.
It gave documentation of the millions and millions of dollars being poured into evangelical institutions with the goal of compromising the Bible in order to get along with culture concerning the LGBTQ issues and other immoral practices.
I was shocked.
And the problem is, is that it's being highly successful.
The Bible in the Old Testament, the Old Testament is actually Hebrew Bible.
We call it the Old Testament.
And the New Testament have many places in both that talk about a gay and lesbian lifestyle.
And in every single one, it presents it as sinful.
Not the compulsions, but the actual activity, the actual lifestyle.
and you really can't get away from that.
I want to tell you something.
I want to be a church that loves people.
I want to be a church that's kind.
I want to be a church that anybody can come here and worship with us or at least come and hear what the Bible teaches.
We have that as a purpose statement that we say at the end of every service to love and lead all people.
And we mean that all people.
No matter what the background is, the beliefs are, the lifestyle is, we want everyone to be able to come to a service in this church and hear the Bible.
But listen to what that purpose statement says to love and lead all people to life change in Christ.
All of us are on the journey of life change.
All of us are.
You don't help a person come to life change by denying what the Bible says.
You actually hurt the person.
You don't help a person and love a person by denying the Word of God.
You say the truth of what the Bible says and you love each person.
You are welcome here.
No matter who you are, we will love you when you come.
But we will also teach the Word of God.
Just like it's written.
How is it that we can impact the culture if we're living like the culture?
What are we impacting them for?
Jesus said that we are the light of the world, and He even uses that terminology with these churches, the lampstand that has the light in the darkness.
But how do we shine in the darkness when we emulate the darkness?
How do we be a light?
No church ever wins with compromising the Bible to get along with the culture.
All it brings, and Jesus is trying to explain this to us in the seven churches of Revelation, all it brings is discipline and eventual abandonment.
They're churches that meet all over the world today that have left God, that left His Word, that teach something else,
and they still sing the songs and preach whatever they preach and do whatever they do, but it didn't mean that Jesus is there.
He left a long time ago.
I don't ever want that to be us.
I don't want to be.
I don't want to be mean.
I don't appreciate the negative jokes about people in this lifestyle or any lifestyle.
I don't appreciate that.
I don't appreciate the derogatory things that people say about others.
You remember the man that came to Jesus and asked Jesus, what is the greatest of all commandments?
And Jesus said, to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength.
And to love your neighbor as yourself.
I want to be
the church that loves our neighbor as ourself, that is kind to every human being.
How do we lead someone to Christ and be mean to them at the same time?
That isn't who we are.
But to love your neighbor as yourself is the second.
Don't forget the first one.
To love the Lord, your God, with all your heart, soul, strength and mind.
And the Bible over and over says that if you love me, you will keep my word.
First and foremost, it is to love the Lord with all of our heart and second to love our neighbors or so.
So we choose to continue to be a church who holds true to God's word.
that will require four things from us.
First, it requires that we yield to the Bible as the ultimate authority in our church.
Listen to how the Bible presents itself.
In 2 Timothy chapter three, verse 16 and 17, all scripture is God breathed.
and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting, training, and righteousness.
So the man of God may be thoroughly equipped for every good work.
And Paul, when he writes this to Timothy, is talking about the Hebrew Bible, he's talking about the Old Testament.
Is God breathed?
And as it turns out, what was happening in the collection of these books in the New Testament is they were actually being God breathed too.
And just as authoritative.
2 Peter, chapter 1, verse 21 says, for prophecy never had its origin in the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit.
This is the high view that the head of God's word, of the word of God has, of its origin and who it is, it is the word of God.
But listen to what he says in Psalm 138 verse two.
God, you have magnified your word above your name.
In our culture, this would not be quite as understandable as in the Bible culture because in Bible culture, the parents would name their child after the characteristic, the nature, the character that they would want their child to be.
There were times in which that didn't happen, and there would be the renaming of the child.
Jesus does that with Simon, who he renames as Peter, because he is making a point of the character of the nature he is wanting Peter to have.
What I'm saying is, is that a name in Bible times carries so much more weight than it does in our culture.
the characteristics, the character, the nature of that person.
That's the idea.
So what is God's nature?
His name.
What is His nature?
He is all powerful.
He is all knowing.
He is everywhere.
He is loving.
He is holy.
He is pure.
All the characteristics that you and I know
about our God is his name.
But notice what the verse says.
God has elevated his word above even his nature, even his character.
That tells you the level of where the Word of God is.
And so here is the truth.
Our Bible is an absolute standard of truth.
of the heart of God, of the Word of God.
Any position less than that is headed for trouble.
And we as a church acknowledge the validity, the truthfulness of the Word of God.
In John chapter one verse 17, listen to what John writes, for the law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ.
In verse 14, it says that Jesus is full of grace and truth.
Grace and truth.
If you get that on your radar and you begin to read through the New Testament, it's shocking how often you see the two words all through the New Testament.
Sometimes it's truth and grace, other times it's grace and truth, but the two words are connected to each other.
This is the nature of Jesus, truth and grace.
It is if we're becoming more like Christ, it is to be our nature of truth and grace.
I've met people that are full of truth with no grace.
They're harsh, they're mean.
I'm standing on the Word of God and you watch them and they are as mean as the devil.
All truth and no grace.
I've met people that are all grace and no truth.
And it's like a medicine bottle that has on it, the label on it, of all the things this medicine's going to do for you, but the bottle is empty.
It has no value.
It's sort of like cotton candy.
Remember the first time you ever ate cotton candy?
Man, I do.
As a little kid, I saw that giant
cotton candy thing.
I thought, this is going to take me a week, but I am going to eat through this whole cotton candy.
It took me about five seconds because you put it in your mouth.
It just melts.
It's just a little bit of sugar that's turned into this big thing.
And all grace and no truth is sort of like cotton candy.
No, God never intended for us to be all truth and no grace and all are all grace and no truth.
He intended us to be full of grace and full of truth at the same time.
Two months ago, we had Hurricane Burl.
We didn't expect to.
All of the predictions was that it was going to go far
to the west of Houston.
And then in the last day or two, I don't remember exactly how long of notice we got it changed course.
And the eye of the hurricane came over us.
And did you know that as soon as that change happened, it was all over the news.
I mean, everywhere you go, I remember we got burl that's gonna hit us in a day or two or whatever it was.
And it was everywhere you went, burls coming, burls coming.
And I want to tell you, I think all these people that did that just obviously didn't love us.
They didn't love us.
If they would have loved us, they would have said, you know, let's don't ruin the day.
Yeah, I know that it's not, it's going to come like on whatever day.
I remember that Monday was at Monday.
I don't know when it was, but let's don't ruin Sunday.
They're happy.
Let's let them stay happy.
Why give them misery for Sunday?
They'll wake up on Monday, it won't be so good, but at least they had a good Sunday.
Oh no.
Instead, they told us a day or two in advance and they did it because they wanted us to know the truth and they wanted us to get ready.
And the reality is that actually was real love.
If a church truly cares about others, it'll be truthful about sin and judgment.
And it'll be gracious to meet others' needs as it shares Christ.
It isn't one or the other, it's both and.
The Bible teaches that the lifestyle, the gay and lesbian and lifestyle, is wrought with misreadicom and is not what God intended.
It warns people don't go that direction.
And we want to be honest.
We don't want to be the mean people that are so mean to individuals that are in this lifestyle.
We want to be loving and kind, but we want to be truthful.
The Bible teaches that there are two genders.
It is male and female.
And by the way, science teaches that too.
It's not exclusive to the Bible.
Richard Dawkins is a well-known guy, a scientist, because of his atheism, and he's just well-known.
And Richard Dawkins, I read an article that he wrote about this, and he said this whole thing of three or 30 genders, whatever the number is now, he said, this is all fantasy.
It's all made up.
It's all made believe.
It's not true.
There's two genders, he said.
male and female, that science.
And then he went on to say that scientists who are capitulating to this are only doing it because they want their funding.
I'm here to tell you that I don't understand transgenderism and I'm being upfront about that and I've said that to you before.
I don't, I don't understand it.
I do know that all through decades and decades, about half a percent
and I don't understand it, and I want a better understanding than I do.
But today, it's like six or seven percent.
So how in the world, all these decades and decades, it's been a half percent, and suddenly in just this generation, just right now, it's turned out to be seven percent.
How did that happen?
It's called recruitment, and it's taking advantage of especially teenage girls as it's turning out.
but there's two genders.
We want to be people of the truth and we want to be people of grace.
Second of all, what we believe really does matter.
Jesus said about this church, you have love and faith and dedication, persistence,
But he says, here's what I have against you.
In the name of tolerance, you have given up truth.
I've had people that have said to me, look, I don't want doctrine.
I don't want doctrine.
Just tell me how the Bible can improve my life.
And I think to myself, okay, I understand, they don't understand.
Doctrine is Bible truth.
And the truth is what sets you free.
That Bible truth will change your life.
And I know they don't understand.
But here's what Isaiah 66 verse two says, this is the one I esteem, a person who is humble and contrite in spirit who trembles at my word.
And the word tremble simply means respect.
It matters what we believe.
Third, every teacher in our church, including Mark Hartman,
is to be judged in accordance to the faithfulness to God's word, every teacher.
In Revelation 2.20, he says, I am upset because you tolerate false doctrine.
And you don't want to call it out because you don't want to rock the boat.
Do you remember Paul why he loved the church of Berea so much in Acts 17, verse 11?
And the people of Berea were more open-minded than those of Thessalonica, and they listened eagerly to Paul's message.
They searched the scriptures day after day to see if what Paul and Silas were teaching was true.
And if Paul needs to be checked about what he's teaching, then Mark Hartman needs to be checked.
and every other teacher.
Are we teaching what the Bible says?
Are we teaching the Word of God?
And here's the last thing.
Jesus is the ultimate judge of our church.
Revelation 2, 18, to the angel of the church at Thyatira, right?
These are the words of the Son of God whose eyes are like blazing fire and whose feet are like burnished bronze.
Jesus is saying,
the Son of God, listen to me.
And the eyes that is like fire just simply means that He has the ability to look through all of our excuses and all of our words and see the truth about our heart.
He knows the truth and He is the judge.
It's a statement of judgment that He has given in the verse.
Jesus said in John chapter 12 verse 48, He that rejects me
and receives not my words has one that judges him.
The word that I have spoken, the same will judge him in the last day.
One day I'm gonna be judged by Jesus and his word of my life and how I lived my life, but also about my ministry and how I led and what I taught.
I'm gonna be held accountable for it.
And one day you are going to be held accountable before Jesus, in accordance to His Word.
We need to live our lives in such a way that recognizes that truth.
I have one more thing to say.
Jesus gives us a promise.
and notice what the promise is.
Revelation chapter 2 verse 25, only hold on to what you have until I come.
To him who overcomes and does my will to the end, I will give authority over the nations.
He will rule them with an iron scepter.
He'll dash them to pieces like pottery, just as I have received authority from my father.
And I will give him the morning star.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
I don't begin to tell you that I understand everything that he just said.
And we don't have time anyway this morning to look at it, but this I do understand.
He says, hold on to the Word of God and the power of the Holy Spirit.
Hang on to the truth.
Hang on to truth, hang on to grace.
And live this way.
in your life, we choose to be a church with an unwavering commitment to the Word of God.
Amen?
Amen.
Let's be the church that knows what grace is and that is kind and loving and gracious and helpful and welcoming.
and let's be a church that lives by the truth of God's word because we can do, must do, both.
Let's pray.
Father, we come to you today and we thank you for the truth of your word.
It's hard, sometimes harsh, sometimes difficult, and it cuts to the quick in the culture.
It always will.
God help us to be willing to even suffer for your namesake if that's what it means.
But to love you and hold true to your word, we ask Father that this be who we are at Sugar Creek Baptist Church.
Lord, I pray for those in this room today.
This is a tough message to hear.
This is a difficult thing to hear.
But I pray for those in this room who have never given their heart to Christ that somehow your spirit is at work in their heart and drawing them to yourself.
And this would be the day of salvation in their own heart.
And I pray, God, that you would move in hearts a day to yield to you.
And I pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.